# Meme Generator

This Udacity Intermediate Python project generates a postcard (meme) by placing a provided text caption including quote text and quote author onto a provided image.

## Packages
Project uses `python 3`, `random`, `PIL`, `abc`, `argparse`, `typing`, `pandas`, `docx`, `os`, `subprocess`, `requests`, `flask`.

## Project Components
This project includes a command line application and a flask application. The which reads a file with an image and a file with quotes. Project includes two modules `QuoteEngine` and `MemeGenerator`.

`QuoteEngine` Module parses an input file containing captions including quote and author. A caption input file is to have a one quote and author per line separated by ",".
Module can parse *.docx, *.csv, *.pdf, and *.txt files. Module includes abstract base class `IngestorInterface`. `Ingestor` class selects an appropriate ingestor for a given type of quote input file. Module returns a list of `QuoteModel` objects containing quote text and quote author strings.

`MemeGenerator` Module creates a meme by placing a caption on a provided image. Image file type is *.png or *.jpeg. Module return a path to a created image with the caption.

Folder structure:
* `fonts` contains caption's font hardcoded in `MemeGenerator.py`
* `static` collects meme iamges generated by web `app.py`
* `tmp` collects meme images generated by `meme.py`


## Running the program
The program can be run in two ways. First, running `app.py` on flask. Second, from the terminal by invoking `python3 meme.py`
The `app.py` uses either a randomly selceted image and quote from the library or constructs a meme using `requests` package to fetch an image from a user provided URL address. 

The `meme.py` script takes three optional command line input (CLI) arguments:

* `--body` a string quote body
* `--author` a string quote author
* `--path ` an image path

The script returns a path to a generated imagewith a quote placed on it. If any argument is not defined, a random selection is used.

## License
`meme.py` is a public domain work, dedicated using [CC0 1.0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). Feel free to do whatever you want with it.
